Install the latest version of php/nginx and MariaDB/ProFTPD (LEMP) server on Debian 9.x (#71)
hetzneronline/community-content: tutorials/Install-the-latest-version-of-php-nginx-and-MariaDB-ProFTPD-(LEMP)-server-on-Debian-9.x/01.en.md

slug: "tutorial-template"
date: "2019-03-17"
title: "Install the latest version of php/nginx and MariaDB/ProFTPD (LEMP) server on Debian 9.x"
short_description: "build a php/nginx/mariadb/proftpd server on debian 9.x"
tags: ["Development", "Lang:shell"]
author: "zhang dawei"
author_link: "https://www.tingtao.org/"
author_img: ""
author_description: "love freebsd and linux server"
header_img: ""
---

<!-- This where the actual tutorial begins, with the title: -->

# Install the latest version of php/nginx and MariaDB/ProFTPD (LEMP) server on Debian 9.x

## Introduction

you can copy&paste all cmd to build a php/nginx/mariadb/proftpd server on debian 9.x <br />
please ignore error msg on some cmd , because "some" os maybe have different software or environment . follow the steps in this article will be ok . <br />
I develop "https://api.tingtao.org/cfg.php" to build config file of php/mariadb/proftpd/nginx , the doc is here (Chinese) : https://www.tingtao.org/archives/1843.html <br />

**Prerequisites**

need a "new" install or "clean" debian .

## Step 1 - (Optional) Disable postfix and remove it 

> please ignore this step if your system not installed postfix .

Reviewer: I'd rephrase this:
```suggestion
You may ignore this step if your system does not have postfix installed.
```

```shell

> systemctl disable postfix && /etc/init.d/postfix stop

Reviewer: When disabling the service via systemd I'd also point readers to stop it via systemd:
`systemctl stop postfix`

> apt remove -y --purge postfix*

Reviewer: Maybe we could add a little warning for our readers to be careful when using wildcards in these type of commands.

apt -y autoremove
```

## Step 2 - Update os and software

> ### Step 2.1 - (Optional) set apt to use ipv4 only , because ipv6 is very slow on some region and set ll=ls -al

Reviewer: The sentence after the comma could be better suited to be part of the paragraph imho.

Also, when advising readers to create aliases or "temporary - fixes" (like disabling apt from useing v6 resources) - I suppose we should give a little better explanation about that and whether or not these changes are persistent.

```shell
echo 'Acquire::ForceIPv4 "true";' > /etc/apt/apt.conf.d/99force-ipv4
alias ll='ls -al'
echo "alias ll='ls -al'" >> /root/.bashrc
```

### Step 2.2 - update os and software

```shell

> echo "deb http://ftp.de.debian.org/debian stretch main contrib non-free" >/etc/apt/sources.list

Reviewer: careful with the arrows! :)

You also seem to be doing a bit more than just "updating the OS". Give our readers a quick insight or a Link to furhter information about what you're doing here.

echo "deb http://ftp.de.debian.org/debian stretch-updates main contrib non-free" >>/etc/apt/sources.list
echo "deb http://security.debian.org stretch/updates main contrib non-free" >>/etc/apt/sources.list
echo "deb-src http://ftp.de.debian.org/debian stretch main contrib non-free" >>/etc/apt/sources.list
echo "deb-src http://ftp.de.debian.org/debian stretch-updates main contrib non-free" >>/etc/apt/sources.list
echo "deb-src http://security.debian.org stretch/updates main contrib non-free" >>/etc/apt/sources.list
apt-get update && apt-get upgrade -y && apt-get -u dist-upgrade -y
```

### Step 2.3 - (Optional) Optimize tcp for more-connection

> 

Reviewer: Also here. You are advising a possibly inexperienced user to do conduct persistent changes to their operating system. Please leave them some more information :)

* ftp-pwd : pwd123454321 <br />
* web-log : enable <br />
* php : enable <br />
* fastcgi : enable <br />
* fastcgi-cachetime : 1h <br />
* https : enable <br />
* https ca : /var/www/ca/123.com/fullchain.pem /var/www/ca/123.com/private.pem

```shell
useradd www.123.com -s /sbin/nologin
echo www.123.com:www.123.comwww.123.com*|chpasswd
groupadd -f www.123.com
usermod -G www.123.com -a www-data
usermod -G www.123.com -a proftpd
mkdir /var/www/www.123.com
usermod -d /var/www/www.123.com www.123.com
chown -R www.123.com:www.123.com /var/www/www.123.com
chmod -R 755 /var/www/www.123.com
wget "https://api.tingtao.org/cfg.php?svrsoft=php&os=deb9&webname=www.123.com&php=7.3" -O /etc/php/7.3/fpm/pool.d/www.123.com.conf 
wget "https://api.tingtao.org/cfg.php?svrsoft=nginx&webname=www.123.com&php=7.3&svrpoint=0&ssl=1&logs=1&fastcgi=1&domains=123.com,www.123.com,vvv.123.com&ssldirname=123.com&fastcgicachetime=1h" -O /etc/nginx/sites-enabled/www.123.com.conf
```

now you can restart php-fpm and nginx :

```shell
/etc/init.d/nginx restart
/etc/init.d/php7.3-fpm restart
```

ok , the site is running now ! you can send files use ftp and visit the web site .

> ##### License: MIT

Reviewer: License Block is not needed imho - this whole project underlies the MIT - License.

Reviewer 2: This is wrong, the license block **is** needed, see [#66-473822890](https://github.com/hetzneronline/community-content/pull/66#issuecomment-473822890)

Reviewer: oof. My bad :man_facepalming: @eaglepride

systemctl restart php7.3-fpm
```

ok, the site is running now ! you can send files use ftp and visit the web site.

> ##### License: MIT

Reviewer: `<!---

Contributors's Certificate of Origin

By making a contribution to this project, I certify that:

(a) The contribution was created in whole or in part by me and I have
    the right to submit it under the license indicated in the file; or

(b) The contribution is based upon previous work that, to the best of my
    knowledge, is covered under an appropriate license and I have the
    right under that license to submit that work with modifications,
    whether created in whole or in part by me, under the same license
    (unless I am permitted to submit under a different license), as
    indicated in the file; or

(c) The contribution was provided directly to me by some other person
    who certified (a), (b) or (c) and I have not modified it.

(d) I understand and agree that this project and the contribution are
    public and that a record of the contribution (including all personal
    information I submit with it, including my sign-off) is maintained
    indefinitely and may be redistributed consistent with this project
    or the license(s) involved.

Signed-off-by: [Your name and email address]

-->`
